CRAWLER_METACLEANER(1)
=====================
:doctype: manpage

NAME
----
crawler_metacleaner - cleans up duplicate crawled sites across batches

SYNOPSIS
--------
*crawler_metacleaner* 'DIR-PATTERN' 'OPTIONS'

DESCRIPTION
-----------
The crawler_metacleaner(1) tool looks in a directory or set of directories
specified in a positional and compulsory pattern argument. These directories are
supposed to contain crawled data, structured on a per-crawled site basis. The
directory pattern can be specified either as a glob pattern (default operation),
or as a regular expression pattern. The tool detects web sites which have been
crawled in several batches, assuming that a web site of the form
http://foo.bar/baz is the same as http://foo.bar, as sub-pages are abstracted
away anyway upon crawling. The detected duplicate sites are placed in an output
directory which can be either user-specified, or chosen by default, with the
name duplicate_fix_part_of_DIR-PATTERN, e.g. if the DIR-PATTERN is
batches/crawls_*, then the output directory is batches/duplicate_crawls_. If the
same site has been crawled several times, all crawls will be stored in the
output directory, with ordinal suffixes, e.g. if http://foo.bar has been crawled
three times and http://foo.bar/baz has been crawled one time, then, in the
output directory, we will have www.foo.bar, www.foo.bar.1 and www.foo.bar__baz.
The cleaning policy can be specified as either "keep the oldest crawl" of a web
site, or as "keep the newest crawl", putting the others in the output directory.
By default, the oldest crawl is kept and the newer ones are discarded to the
duplicates output directory. The "oldest" / "newest" status is accounted for in
terms of directory modification time.

OPTIONS
-------
*--keep-newest*  {false|true}::
    Keeps the newest duplicate crawled web sites and discards the older ones to
    the output directory holding duplicate sites (false by default).

*--regex*::
    Use regular expression in the input directory pattern, instead of glob
    (false by default).

*-o*::
    Output directory (duplicate_fixed_part_of_DIR-PATTERN by default).

*-help,--help,-?*::
    Print program help text and exit.

*-version*::
    Print program build version and exit.

EXIT STATUS
-----------

*0*::
    Success

*Exception raised*::
    Failure (especially directory access input/output errors).

AUTHOR
------
crawler_metacleaner was written by Vladimir Popescu, on behalf of ELDA, the
Evaluations and Language Resources Distribution Agency.

COPYING
-------
Copyright \(C) 2016 ELDA. All rights reserved. Distributed under the terms of
the GNU General Public License version 3, accessible at
<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/.
