CRAWLER_FILTER(1)
================
:doctype: manpage

NAME
----
crawler_filter - sorts and prunes (filters) reporting data

SYNOPSIS
--------
*crawler_filter* 'OPTIONS'

DESCRIPTION
-----------
The crawler_filter(1) tool sorts synthesis reports, within each crawled site,
according to the number of TUs and then on the alignment scores. The tool also
prunes synthesis reports on a TU number lower threshold and on an alignment
score variance to mean ratio upper threshold. The tool also prunes the full
reports based on two criteria: distance-to-median based outlier detection, and
TUs coming from original web sites that do not share the domain name with the
crawled web site. Each of these options is not enforced by default. The tool
also prunes TUs having TUVs with more than a certain percentage of
miss-spellings (detected on the basis of aspell(1)), and TUs having inter-TUV
length ratios outside a specified range. Last but not least, the tool also
prunes the TUs which do not have any TUV in a language that is among the
official languages of the countries the original web sites reside in, if the
countries can be identified. For any filtering, in order to generate consistent
synthesis and full reports, the pruned synthesis reports are projected on full
reports' data, and the pruned full reports are projected back on the synthesis
report data. So, basically the crawler_filter(1) can also be run as
a "projector" in order to make a synthesis report consistent with a full report.
This is achieved by not selecting any of the filtering options. Example
scenario: crawler_filter(1) takes a pruned synthesis report according to
a specified language pair, and the complete full report; hence, the tool will
project the synthesis, thus pruning the full report so that it only contains TUs
in the languages listed in the synthesis report.

OPTIONS
-------
*-rs*::
    Synthesis report file name.

*--length-ratio-range*::
    Prune TUs having the length ratio out of the specified range. This range can
    be specified as [low:high], with two particular cases: [:high] yields an
    implicit low of 0.0, and [low:] yields an implicit high of infinity.

*--outlier-threshold*::
    Prune entries with a deviation to median ratio greater than the specified
    value (infinity by default).

*--keep-only-official-languages*::
    Prune all TUs that do not have any TUV in a language that is among the
    official languages of the countries the original web sites reside in, if
    these countries can be identified. If no country can be identified for the
    original web sites, then this filter has no effect. Else, if the country can
    be identified for one TUV only, then its language only will be verified
    against the official languages of the identified country.

*--prune-different-origins*::
    Prune entries with original sites which are different from the crawled site
    (false by default).

*--prune-missspellings-percent*::
    Prune TUs having at least one TUV containing strictly more than the
    specified percent of miss-spelled tokens, out of the total number of tokens
    in the TUV, according to aspell (100 by default). Please note that this
    feature requires to have aspell installed, along with support for the
    language(s) under scrutiny.

*--sigma-mu-threshold*::
    Prune entries with a score variance to mean ratio greater than the specified
    value (infinity by default).

*--tu-threshold*::
    Prune entries with less than the specified number of TUs (1 by default).

*-d*::
    Delimiter for the reports CSV files.

*-rf*::
    Full report file name.

*-version*::
    Print the version of this build and exit.

*-help,--help,-?*::
    Print this help text and exit.

EXIT STATUS
-----------

*0*::
    Success

*Exception raised*::
    Failure (especially read IO error, or ill-formed input data errors).

AUTHOR
------
crawler_filter was written by Vladimir Popescu, on behalf of ELDA, the
Evaluations and Language Resources Distribution Agency.

COPYING
-------
Copyright \(C) 2016 ELDA. All rights reserved. Distributed under the terms of
the GNU General Public License version 3, accessible at
<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/.
